docs/source/examples/example4.rst, before:

.. _Example 4:

Example 4
=========

Tracking an intruder while penetrating a granular
material in a quasi 2D enviroment. Code and multimedia resources are
available `here <https://github.com/yupidevs/yupi_examples/>`_.

The work carried out by [1] studied
penetration of an intruder inside a granular material,
focusing on the influence of a wall on the trajectory
of the intruder. The authors tested different configurations
and observed specific phenomena during the penetration
process (e.g., repulsion and rotation), as well as their
dependence on the initial distance of the intruder from the wall.

In this example, we provide a script that extracts the trajectory of
the intruder from one of the videos used to produce the results of
the original paper. Moreover, we include details to generate a plot
closely resembling the one presented in the paper [1].

The example is structured as follows:
  | :ref:`Setup dependencies 4`
  | :ref:`Tracking tracking objects 4`
  | :ref:`Computation of the variables 4`
  | :ref:`Results 4`
  | :ref:`References 4`



.. _Setup dependencies 4:

1. Setup dependencies
---------------------

Import all the dependencies:

.. code-block:: python

   from numpy import pi
   from yupi.tracking.trackers import ROI, ObjectTracker, TrackingScenario
   from yupi.tracking.undistorters import RemapUndistorter
   from yupi.tracking.algorithms import ColorMatching
   from yupi.graphics import plot_2D

Set up the path to multimedia resources:

.. code-block:: python

   video_path = 'resources/videos/Diaz2020.MP4'
   camera_file = 'resources/cameras/gph3+.npz'


.. _Tracking tracking objects 4:

2. Tracking tracking objects
----------------------------

Since the camera used for this application introduced a considerable
spherical distortion, we need to create an instance of an Undistorter
to correct it:

.. code-block:: python

   undistorter = RemapUndistorter(camera_file)

The variable camera_file contains the path to a .npz file with the
matrix of calibration for the specific camera configuration, more details
on how to produce it can be found `in here
<https://yupi.readthedocs.io/en/latest/api_reference/tracking/undistorters.html>`_.

Then, we initialize two trackers, one for each marker of the intruder:

.. code-block:: python

   algorithm1 = ColorMatching((70,40,20), (160,80,20)) # BGR
   cyan = ObjectTracker('center marker', algorithm1, ROI((50, 50)))

   algorithm2 = ColorMatching((30,20, 50), (95, 45,120))        
   magenta = ObjectTracker('border marker', algorithm2,  ROI((30, 50)))


Now, we will create the TrackingScenario with the trackers and
also the Undistorter.

.. code-block:: python

   scenario = TrackingScenario([cyan, magenta],
                            undistorter=undistorter)

Then, we track the video using the configured scenario providing the
scaling factor (pix_per_m) and the frame to start the processing:


.. code-block:: python

   retval, tl = scenario.track(video_path, pix_per_m=2826, start_frame=200)
   plot_2D(tl)

.. figure:: /images/example4-1.png
   :alt: Output of example4
   :align: center

.. _Computation of the variables 4:

3. Computation of the variables
-------------------------------

We can improve the visualization, by applying some transformations to the tracked
trajectories. First, we can rotate them 90 degrees to better illustrate the
effect of gravity:

.. code-block:: python

   tl[0].rotate(- pi / 2)
   tl[1].rotate(- pi / 2)


Next, we update the coordinate system to place it at the initial position of
the center of the intruder:

.. code-block:: python

   off = tl[0].r[0]
   tl[1] -= off
   tl[0] -= off

.. _Results 4:

4. Results
----------

Now, we can produce a plot quite similar to the one of the original paper [1]:

.. code-block:: python

   plot_2D(tl, line_style='-o', connected=True)


.. figure:: /images/example4-2.png
   :alt: Output of example42
   :align: center


.. _References 4:

5. References
-------------

| [1] Díaz-Melián, V. L., et al. "Rolling away from the Wall into Granular Matter." Physical Review Letters 125.7 (2020): 078002.

Commit message:

Add script references on examples

docs/source/examples/example4.rst, after:

.. _Example 4:

Example 4
=========

Tracking an intruder while penetrating a granular
material in a quasi 2D enviroment. Code and multimedia resources are
available `here <https://github.com/yupidevs/yupi_examples/>`_.

The work carried out by [1] studied
penetration of an intruder inside a granular material,
focusing on the influence of a wall on the trajectory
of the intruder. The authors tested different configurations
and observed specific phenomena during the penetration
process (e.g., repulsion and rotation), as well as their
dependence on the initial distance of the intruder from the wall.

In this example, we provide a script that extracts the trajectory of
the intruder from one of the videos used to produce the results of
the original paper. Moreover, we include details to generate a plot
closely resembling the one presented in the paper [1].

The example is structured as follows:
  | :ref:`Setup dependencies 4`
  | :ref:`Tracking tracking objects 4`
  | :ref:`Computation of the variables 4`
  | :ref:`Results 4`
  | :ref:`References 4`

.. note::
   You can access `the script of this example <https://github.com/yupidevs/yupi_examples/blob/master/example_004.py>`_ on the `yupi examples repository <https://github.com/yupidevs/yupi_examples>`_.

.. _Setup dependencies 4:

1. Setup dependencies
---------------------

Import all the dependencies:

.. code-block:: python

   from numpy import pi
   from yupi.tracking.trackers import ROI, ObjectTracker, TrackingScenario
   from yupi.tracking.undistorters import RemapUndistorter
   from yupi.tracking.algorithms import ColorMatching
   from yupi.graphics import plot_2D

Set up the path to multimedia resources:

.. code-block:: python

   video_path = 'resources/videos/Diaz2020.MP4'
   camera_file = 'resources/cameras/gph3+.npz'


.. _Tracking tracking objects 4:

2. Tracking tracking objects
----------------------------

Since the camera used for this application introduced a considerable
spherical distortion, we need to create an instance of an Undistorter
to correct it:

.. code-block:: python

   undistorter = RemapUndistorter(camera_file)

The variable camera_file contains the path to a .npz file with the
matrix of calibration for the specific camera configuration, more details
on how to produce it can be found `in here
<https://yupi.readthedocs.io/en/latest/api_reference/tracking/undistorters.html>`_.

Then, we initialize two trackers, one for each marker of the intruder:

.. code-block:: python

   algorithm1 = ColorMatching((70,40,20), (160,80,20)) # BGR
   cyan = ObjectTracker('center marker', algorithm1, ROI((50, 50)))

   algorithm2 = ColorMatching((30,20, 50), (95, 45,120))        
   magenta = ObjectTracker('border marker', algorithm2,  ROI((30, 50)))


Now, we will create the TrackingScenario with the trackers and
also the Undistorter.

.. code-block:: python

   scenario = TrackingScenario([cyan, magenta],
                            undistorter=undistorter)

Then, we track the video using the configured scenario providing the
scaling factor (pix_per_m) and the frame to start the processing:


.. code-block:: python

   retval, tl = scenario.track(video_path, pix_per_m=2826, start_frame=200)
   plot_2D(tl)

.. figure:: /images/example4-1.png
   :alt: Output of example4
   :align: center

.. _Computation of the variables 4:

3. Computation of the variables
-------------------------------

We can improve the visualization, by applying some transformations to the tracked
trajectories. First, we can rotate them 90 degrees to better illustrate the
effect of gravity:

.. code-block:: python

   tl[0].rotate(- pi / 2)
   tl[1].rotate(- pi / 2)


Next, we update the coordinate system to place it at the initial position of
the center of the intruder:

.. code-block:: python

   off = tl[0].r[0]
   tl[1] -= off
   tl[0] -= off

.. _Results 4:

4. Results
----------

Now, we can produce a plot quite similar to the one of the original paper [1]:

.. code-block:: python

   plot_2D(tl, line_style='-o', connected=True)


.. figure:: /images/example4-2.png
   :alt: Output of example42
   :align: center


.. _References 4:

5. References
-------------

| [1] Díaz-Melián, V. L., et al. "Rolling away from the Wall into Granular Matter." Physical Review Letters 125.7 (2020): 078002.
