docs/source/examples/example2.rst, before:

.. _Example 2:

Example 2
=========

A comparison of different tracking methods over the same input video
where the camera is fixed at a constant distance from the plane
where an ant moves. Code and multimedia resources are available
`here <https://github.com/yupidevs/yupi_examples/>`_.

In the work of Frayle-Pérez et. al [1], the authors studied the
capabilities of different image processing algorithms that
can be used for image segmentation and tracking of the motion
of insects under controlled environments. In this section, we
illustrate a comparison of a subset of these algorithms and
evaluate them using one of the videos from the original paper.

The example is structured as follows:
  | :ref:`Setup dependencies 2`
  | :ref:`Creation of the tracking objects 2`
  | :ref:`Results 2`
  | :ref:`References 2`


.. _Setup dependencies 2:

1. Setup dependencies
---------------------

Import all the dependencies:

.. code-block:: python

   import cv2
   from yupi.tracking import ROI, ObjectTracker, TrackingScenario
   from yupi.tracking import ColorMatching, FrameDifferencing
   from yupi.tracking import BackgroundEstimator, BackgroundSubtraction
   from yupi.tracking import TemplateMatching, OpticalFlow
   from yupi.graphics import plot_2D

Set up the path to multimedia resources:

.. code-block:: python

   video_path = 'resources/videos/Frayle2017.mp4'
   template_file = 'resources/templates/ant_small.png'


.. _Creation of the tracking objects 2:

2. Creation of the tracking objects
-----------------------------------

First, we create an empty list to add all the trackers. Each tracker is
associated with a tracking algorithm so we can evaluate the differences in
the tracking process performed by each algorithm.

.. code-block:: python

   trackers = []

The first algorithm we will add is ColorMatching. It only requires the user to
specify the range of colors that will considered by the algorithm as the ones
belonging to the object. The range of colors can be indicated in different
color spaces, by default BGR.


.. code-block:: python

   algorithm = ColorMatching((0,0,0), (150,150,150))
   trackers.append( ObjectTracker('color_matching', algorithm, ROI((50, 50))) )

In the case of FrameDifferencing, we specify the threshold in pixel
intensity difference among two consecutive frames to be considered part of the
tracked object.

.. code-block:: python

   algorithm = FrameDifferencing(frame_diff_threshold=5)
   trackers.append( ObjectTracker('frame_diff', algorithm, ROI((50, 50))) )

BackgroundSubtraction algorithm requires a picture that contains only the
background of the scene. However, if there is none available, it is possible
to estimate it from a video using a BackgroundEstimator. Then, we specify the
background_threshold that indicates the the minimum difference in pixel
intensity among a frame and the background to be considered part of the
moving object.

.. code-block:: python

   background = BackgroundEstimator.from_video(video_path, 20, 120)
   algorithm = BackgroundSubtraction(background, background_threshold=5)
   trackers.append( ObjectTracker('bkgnd_sub', algorithm, ROI((50, 50))) )

For the case of TemplateMatching algorithm, a template
image containing a typical sample of the object being tracked must be
provided. Then, it will compute the point in a frame in which the
correlation between the template and the region of the frame is maximum.

.. code-block:: python

   template = cv2.imread(template_file)
   algorithm = TemplateMatching(template, threshold=0.7)
   trackers.append( ObjectTracker('temp_match', algorithm, ROI((50, 50))) )

OpticalFlow algorithm computes a dense optical flow among the current frame and
the i-th previous frame, specified by the parameter buffer_size. If the
magnitude of the flow is above a certain threshold it will be considered as part
of the moving object.

.. code-block:: python

   algorithm = OpticalFlow(threshold=0.3, buffer_size=3)
   trackers.append( ObjectTracker('optical_flow', algorithm, ROI((50, 50))) )

.. _Results 2:

3. Results
----------

Once all the trackers are collected in a list, we can create a TrackingScenario:


.. code-block:: python

   scenario = TrackingScenario(trackers)

and track the video using the configured scenario. The track method will process
the video pointed by video_path, using the additional settings we provide. In this
case we are forcing to start at frame 120 and use a scale factor of 1020 pixels per
meter. We should must initialize the ROI
of each tracker manually, unless we stated it differently while creating each of the
ROI instances of the trackers.

.. code-block:: python

   retval, tl = scenario.track(video_path, pix_per_m=1024, start_frame=120)


After the tracking process finishes we will have a list of Trajectory objects
in the variable ``tl``. We can plot them together to evaluate the consistency
of all methods.

.. code-block:: python

   plot_2D(tl)

.. figure:: /images/example2.png
   :alt: Output of example2
   :align: center

It is easy to see that the estimated trajectories are very consistent with each other
despite the differences on the tracking methods. It is also important to realize
that the differences in the very last part of the track are due the escape of
the object being tracked from the scene. In those cases, each method does its
own estimation of the likely next position.

.. _References 2:

4. References
--------------------------

| [1] Frayle-Pérez, S., et al. "Chasing insects: a survey of tracking algorithms." Revista Cubana de Fisica 34.1 (2017): 44-47.

Commit message:

Add script references on examples

docs/source/examples/example2.rst, after:

.. _Example 2:

Example 2
=========

A comparison of different tracking methods over the same input video
where the camera is fixed at a constant distance from the plane
where an ant moves. Code and multimedia resources are available
`here <https://github.com/yupidevs/yupi_examples/>`_.

In the work of Frayle-Pérez et. al [1], the authors studied the
capabilities of different image processing algorithms that
can be used for image segmentation and tracking of the motion
of insects under controlled environments. In this section, we
illustrate a comparison of a subset of these algorithms and
evaluate them using one of the videos from the original paper.

The example is structured as follows:
  | :ref:`Setup dependencies 2`
  | :ref:`Creation of the tracking objects 2`
  | :ref:`Results 2`
  | :ref:`References 2`

.. note::
   You can access `the script of this example <https://github.com/yupidevs/yupi_examples/blob/master/example_002.py>`_ on the `yupi examples repository <https://github.com/yupidevs/yupi_examples>`_.

.. _Setup dependencies 2:

1. Setup dependencies
---------------------

Import all the dependencies:

.. code-block:: python

   import cv2
   from yupi.tracking import ROI, ObjectTracker, TrackingScenario
   from yupi.tracking import ColorMatching, FrameDifferencing
   from yupi.tracking import BackgroundEstimator, BackgroundSubtraction
   from yupi.tracking import TemplateMatching, OpticalFlow
   from yupi.graphics import plot_2D

Set up the path to multimedia resources:

.. code-block:: python

   video_path = 'resources/videos/Frayle2017.mp4'
   template_file = 'resources/templates/ant_small.png'


.. _Creation of the tracking objects 2:

2. Creation of the tracking objects
-----------------------------------

First, we create an empty list to add all the trackers. Each tracker is
associated with a tracking algorithm so we can evaluate the differences in
the tracking process performed by each algorithm.

.. code-block:: python

   trackers = []

The first algorithm we will add is ColorMatching. It only requires the user to
specify the range of colors that will considered by the algorithm as the ones
belonging to the object. The range of colors can be indicated in different
color spaces, by default BGR.


.. code-block:: python

   algorithm = ColorMatching((0,0,0), (150,150,150))
   trackers.append( ObjectTracker('color_matching', algorithm, ROI((50, 50))) )

In the case of FrameDifferencing, we specify the threshold in pixel
intensity difference among two consecutive frames to be considered part of the
tracked object.

.. code-block:: python

   algorithm = FrameDifferencing(frame_diff_threshold=5)
   trackers.append( ObjectTracker('frame_diff', algorithm, ROI((50, 50))) )

BackgroundSubtraction algorithm requires a picture that contains only the
background of the scene. However, if there is none available, it is possible
to estimate it from a video using a BackgroundEstimator. Then, we specify the
background_threshold that indicates the the minimum difference in pixel
intensity among a frame and the background to be considered part of the
moving object.

.. code-block:: python

   background = BackgroundEstimator.from_video(video_path, 20, 120)
   algorithm = BackgroundSubtraction(background, background_threshold=5)
   trackers.append( ObjectTracker('bkgnd_sub', algorithm, ROI((50, 50))) )

For the case of TemplateMatching algorithm, a template
image containing a typical sample of the object being tracked must be
provided. Then, it will compute the point in a frame in which the
correlation between the template and the region of the frame is maximum.

.. code-block:: python

   template = cv2.imread(template_file)
   algorithm = TemplateMatching(template, threshold=0.7)
   trackers.append( ObjectTracker('temp_match', algorithm, ROI((50, 50))) )

OpticalFlow algorithm computes a dense optical flow among the current frame and
the i-th previous frame, specified by the parameter buffer_size. If the
magnitude of the flow is above a certain threshold it will be considered as part
of the moving object.

.. code-block:: python

   algorithm = OpticalFlow(threshold=0.3, buffer_size=3)
   trackers.append( ObjectTracker('optical_flow', algorithm, ROI((50, 50))) )

.. _Results 2:

3. Results
----------

Once all the trackers are collected in a list, we can create a TrackingScenario:


.. code-block:: python

   scenario = TrackingScenario(trackers)

and track the video using the configured scenario. The track method will process
the video pointed by video_path, using the additional settings we provide. In this
case we are forcing to start at frame 120 and use a scale factor of 1020 pixels per
meter. We should must initialize the ROI
of each tracker manually, unless we stated it differently while creating each of the
ROI instances of the trackers.

.. code-block:: python

   retval, tl = scenario.track(video_path, pix_per_m=1024, start_frame=120)


After the tracking process finishes we will have a list of Trajectory objects
in the variable ``tl``. We can plot them together to evaluate the consistency
of all methods.

.. code-block:: python

   plot_2D(tl)

.. figure:: /images/example2.png
   :alt: Output of example2
   :align: center

It is easy to see that the estimated trajectories are very consistent with each other
despite the differences on the tracking methods. It is also important to realize
that the differences in the very last part of the track are due the escape of
the object being tracked from the scene. In those cases, each method does its
own estimation of the likely next position.

.. _References 2:

4. References
--------------------------

| [1] Frayle-Pérez, S., et al. "Chasing insects: a survey of tracking algorithms." Revista Cubana de Fisica 34.1 (2017): 44-47.
