docs/source/examples/example1.rst, before:

.. _Example 1:

Example 1
=========

We use a Langevin Generator tuned to generate the trajectories
of a lysozyme molecule in water. After generating a significant
amount of trajectories, we analyze the statistics of them and
observe the classical scaling laws of the Langevin theory to
explain Brownian Motion.

The example is structured as follows:
  | :ref:`Setup dependencies 1`
  | :ref:`Definition of parameters 1`
  | :ref:`Generating trajectories 1`
  | :ref:`Data analysis and plots 1`
  | :ref:`References 1`

.. _Setup dependencies 1:

1. Setup dependencies
---------------------

Import all the dependencies:

.. code-block:: python

   import numpy as np
   import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
   from yupi.generators import LangevinGenerator
   from yupi.stats import (
      msd,
      speed_ensemble,
      vacf,
      turning_angles_ensemble,
      kurtosis,
      kurtosis_reference
   )
   from yupi.graphics import (
      plot_2D,
      plot_angles_hist,
      plot_kurtosis,
      plot_msd,
      plot_vacf,
      plot_velocity_hist
   )

Fix the random generator seed to make results reproducible:

.. code-block:: python

   np.random.seed(0)


.. _Definition of parameters 1:

2. Definition of parameters
---------------------------

First, we establish the generic parameters of the generator first:

.. code-block:: python

   tt_adim = 30     # dimensionless total time
   dim = 2          # trajectory dimension
   N = 1000         # number of trajectories
   dt_adim = 1e-1   # dimensionless time step

Let us define some deterministic parameters of the simulation
(i.e., particle and fluid properties and physical constants):

.. code-block:: python

   N0 = 6.02e23     # Avogadro's constant [1/mol]
   k = 1.38e-23     # Boltzmann's constant [J/mol.K]
   T = 300          # absolute temperature [K]
   eta = 1.002e-3   # water viscosity [Pa.s]
   M = 14.1         # lysozyme molar mass [kg/mol] [1]
   d1 = 90e-10      # semi-major axis [m] [2]
   d2 = 18e-10      # semi-minor axis [m] [2]


We can indirectly measure quantities that are related with the generator
parameters required

.. code-block:: python

   m = M / N0                   # mass of one molecule
   a = np.sqrt(d1/2 * d2/2)     # radius of the molecule
   alpha = 6 * np.pi * eta * a  # Stoke's coefficient
   tau = (alpha / m)**-1        # relaxation time
   v_eq = np.sqrt(k * T / m)    # equilibrium thermal velocity

Then, we can estimate intrinsic reference quantities:

.. code-block:: python

   vr = v_eq       # intrinsic reference velocity
   tr = tau        # intrinsic reference time
   lr = vr * tr    # intrinsic reference length

And finally, the actual statistical model parameters for the
Langevin Generator:

.. code-block:: python

   dt = dt_adim * tr                        # real time step
   noise_pdf = 'normal'                     # noise pdf
   noise_scale_adim = np.sqrt(2 * dt_adim)  # scale parameter of noise pdf
   v0_adim = np.random.randn(dim, N)        # initial dimensionaless speeds

.. _Generating trajectories 1:

3. Generating trajectories
--------------------------

Once we have all the parameters required to tune the Langevin Generator,
we just need to instantiate the class and generate the Trajectories:

.. code-block:: python

   lg = LangevinGenerator(tt_adim, dim, N, dt_adim, v0=v0_adim)
   lg.set_scale(v_scale=vr, r_scale=lr, t_scale=tr)
   trajs = lg.generate()

The set_scale method allows to scale the values of Velocity, Position
and Time after solving the statistical differential equation. It is also
possible to multiply them directly to the input v0, r0, dt and T, but it
makes the Generator slower.

.. _Data analysis and plots 1:

4. Data analysis and plots
--------------------------

Let us initialize an empty figure for plot all the results:

.. code-block:: python

   plt.figure(figsize=(9,5))

Plot spacial trajectories

.. code-block:: python

   ax1 = plt.subplot(231)
   plot_2D(trajs[:5], legend=False, show=False)

Plot velocity histogram

.. code-block:: python

   v = speed_ensemble(trajs, step=1)
   ax2 = plt.subplot(232)
   plot_velocity_hist(v, bins=20, show=False)

Plot turning angles

.. code-block:: python

   theta = turning_angles_ensemble(trajs)
   ax3 = plt.subplot(233, projection='polar')
   plot_angles_hist(theta, show=False)

Plot Mean Square Displacement

.. code-block:: python

   lag_msd = 30
   msd, msd_std = msd(trajs, time_avg=True, lag=lag_msd)
   ax4 = plt.subplot(234)
   plot_msd(msd, msd_std, dt, lag=lag_msd, show=False)

Plot Kurtosis

.. code-block:: python

   kurtosis = kurtosis(trajs, time_avg=False, lag=30)
   kurt_ref = kurtosis_reference(trajs)
   ax5 = plt.subplot(235)
   plot_kurtosis(kurtosis, kurtosis_ref=kurt_ref, dt=dt, show=False)

Plot Velocity autocorrelation function

.. code-block:: python

   lag_vacf = 50
   vacf, _ = vacf(trajs, time_avg=True, lag=lag_vacf)
   ax6 = plt.subplot(236)
   plot_vacf(vacf, dt, lag_vacf, show=False)

Generate plot

.. code-block:: python

   plt.tight_layout()
   plt.show()

.. figure:: /images/example1.png
   :alt: Output of example1
   :align: center

.. _References 1:

5. References
-------------
| [1] Berg, Howard C. Random walks in biology. Princeton University Press, 1993.
| [2] Colvin, J. Ross. "The size and shape of lysozyme." Canadian Journal of Chemistry 30.11 (1952): 831-834.

Commit message:

Add script references on examples

docs/source/examples/example1.rst, after:

.. _Example 1:

Example 1
=========

We use a Langevin Generator tuned to generate the trajectories
of a lysozyme molecule in water. After generating a significant
amount of trajectories, we analyze the statistics of them and
observe the classical scaling laws of the Langevin theory to
explain Brownian Motion.

The example is structured as follows:
  | :ref:`Setup dependencies 1`
  | :ref:`Definition of parameters 1`
  | :ref:`Generating trajectories 1`
  | :ref:`Data analysis and plots 1`
  | :ref:`References 1`

.. note::
   You can access `the script of this example <https://github.com/yupidevs/yupi_examples/blob/master/example_001.py>`_ on the `yupi examples repository <https://github.com/yupidevs/yupi_examples>`_.

.. _Setup dependencies 1:

1. Setup dependencies
---------------------

Import all the dependencies:

.. code-block:: python

   import numpy as np
   import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
   from yupi.generators import LangevinGenerator
   from yupi.stats import (
      msd,
      speed_ensemble,
      vacf,
      turning_angles_ensemble,
      kurtosis,
      kurtosis_reference
   )
   from yupi.graphics import (
      plot_2D,
      plot_angles_hist,
      plot_kurtosis,
      plot_msd,
      plot_vacf,
      plot_velocity_hist
   )

Fix the random generator seed to make results reproducible:

.. code-block:: python

   np.random.seed(0)


.. _Definition of parameters 1:

2. Definition of parameters
---------------------------

First, we establish the generic parameters of the generator first:

.. code-block:: python

   tt_adim = 30     # dimensionless total time
   dim = 2          # trajectory dimension
   N = 1000         # number of trajectories
   dt_adim = 1e-1   # dimensionless time step

Let us define some deterministic parameters of the simulation
(i.e., particle and fluid properties and physical constants):

.. code-block:: python

   N0 = 6.02e23     # Avogadro's constant [1/mol]
   k = 1.38e-23     # Boltzmann's constant [J/mol.K]
   T = 300          # absolute temperature [K]
   eta = 1.002e-3   # water viscosity [Pa.s]
   M = 14.1         # lysozyme molar mass [kg/mol] [1]
   d1 = 90e-10      # semi-major axis [m] [2]
   d2 = 18e-10      # semi-minor axis [m] [2]


We can indirectly measure quantities that are related with the generator
parameters required

.. code-block:: python

   m = M / N0                   # mass of one molecule
   a = np.sqrt(d1/2 * d2/2)     # radius of the molecule
   alpha = 6 * np.pi * eta * a  # Stoke's coefficient
   tau = (alpha / m)**-1        # relaxation time
   v_eq = np.sqrt(k * T / m)    # equilibrium thermal velocity

Then, we can estimate intrinsic reference quantities:

.. code-block:: python

   vr = v_eq       # intrinsic reference velocity
   tr = tau        # intrinsic reference time
   lr = vr * tr    # intrinsic reference length

And finally, the actual statistical model parameters for the
Langevin Generator:

.. code-block:: python

   dt = dt_adim * tr                        # real time step
   noise_pdf = 'normal'                     # noise pdf
   noise_scale_adim = np.sqrt(2 * dt_adim)  # scale parameter of noise pdf
   v0_adim = np.random.randn(dim, N)        # initial dimensionaless speeds

.. _Generating trajectories 1:

3. Generating trajectories
--------------------------

Once we have all the parameters required to tune the Langevin Generator,
we just need to instantiate the class and generate the Trajectories:

.. code-block:: python

   lg = LangevinGenerator(tt_adim, dim, N, dt_adim, v0=v0_adim)
   lg.set_scale(v_scale=vr, r_scale=lr, t_scale=tr)
   trajs = lg.generate()

The set_scale method allows to scale the values of Velocity, Position
and Time after solving the statistical differential equation. It is also
possible to multiply them directly to the input v0, r0, dt and T, but it
makes the Generator slower.

.. _Data analysis and plots 1:

4. Data analysis and plots
--------------------------

Let us initialize an empty figure for plot all the results:

.. code-block:: python

   plt.figure(figsize=(9,5))

Plot spacial trajectories

.. code-block:: python

   ax1 = plt.subplot(231)
   plot_2D(trajs[:5], legend=False, show=False)

Plot velocity histogram

.. code-block:: python

   v = speed_ensemble(trajs, step=1)
   ax2 = plt.subplot(232)
   plot_velocity_hist(v, bins=20, show=False)

Plot turning angles

.. code-block:: python

   theta = turning_angles_ensemble(trajs)
   ax3 = plt.subplot(233, projection='polar')
   plot_angles_hist(theta, show=False)

Plot Mean Square Displacement

.. code-block:: python

   lag_msd = 30
   msd, msd_std = msd(trajs, time_avg=True, lag=lag_msd)
   ax4 = plt.subplot(234)
   plot_msd(msd, msd_std, dt, lag=lag_msd, show=False)

Plot Kurtosis

.. code-block:: python

   kurtosis = kurtosis(trajs, time_avg=False, lag=30)
   kurt_ref = kurtosis_reference(trajs)
   ax5 = plt.subplot(235)
   plot_kurtosis(kurtosis, kurtosis_ref=kurt_ref, dt=dt, show=False)

Plot Velocity autocorrelation function

.. code-block:: python

   lag_vacf = 50
   vacf, _ = vacf(trajs, time_avg=True, lag=lag_vacf)
   ax6 = plt.subplot(236)
   plot_vacf(vacf, dt, lag_vacf, show=False)

Generate plot

.. code-block:: python

   plt.tight_layout()
   plt.show()

.. figure:: /images/example1.png
   :alt: Output of example1
   :align: center

.. _References 1:

5. References
-------------
| [1] Berg, Howard C. Random walks in biology. Princeton University Press, 1993.
| [2] Colvin, J. Ross. "The size and shape of lysozyme." Canadian Journal of Chemistry 30.11 (1952): 831-834.
